Add commands plugin page (#1018)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/plugins/commands.md

# Commands (`commands`)

Command handling on steroids.

This plugin provides various features related to command handling that are not contained in the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
Here is a quick overview of what you get with this plugin:

- Better code structure by attaching middleware to command definitions
- Automatic synchronization via `setMyCommands`
- Command scope handling
- Defining command translations
- "Did you mean ...?" feature that finds the nearest existing command
- Custom command prefixes
- Specify what to do with commands that mention your bot's user
- Support for commands that are not in the beggining of the message
- RegEx support for command names

All of these features are made possible because you will define one or more central command structures that define your bot's commands.

## Basic Usage

Before we dive in, take a look at how you can register and handle a command with the plugin:

```js
const myCommands = new Commands();

myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, world!`));

bot.use(myCommands);
```

> This registers a new "/start" command to your bot that will be handled by the given middleware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This registers a new `/start` command to your bot that will be handled by the given middleware.
```

```

This will make it so every command you registered is displayed on the menu of a private chat with your bot, or whenever users type `/` on a chat your bot is a member of.

## Scoped Commands

Did you know you can allow different commands to be shown on different chats depending on the chat type, the language, and even the user status in a chat group?
That's what Telegram call **Command Scopes**.

The `Command` class returned by the `command` method exposes a method called `addToScope`.
This method takes in a [BotCommandScope](/ref/types/botcommandscope) together with one or more handlers, and registers those handlers to be ran at that specific scope.

You don't even need to worry about calling `filter`, the `addToScope` method will guarantee that your handler only gets called if the context is right.

Here's an example of a scoped command:

```js
const myCommands = new Commands();

myCommands
  .command("start", "Initializes bot configuration")
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_private_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, ${ctx.chat.first_name}!`),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, members of ${ctx.chat.title}!`),
  );
```

> The "start" command can now be called from both private and group chats, and it will give a different response depending on where it gets called from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `start` command can now be called from both private and group chats, and it will give a different response depending on where it gets called from.
```

> Now if you call `myCommands.setCommands`, the "start" command will be registered to both private and group chats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now if you call `myCommands.setCommands`, the `start` command will be registered to both private and group chats.
```

> ### Context shortcut

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Context Shortcut
```

What if you want some commands to be displayed only for certain users.

> For example, imagine you have a "login" and a "logout" command.
> The "login" command should only appear for logged out users, and vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, imagine you have a `login` and a `logout` command.
The `login` command should only appear for logged out users, and vice versa.
```

    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

loggedInCommands.command(
  "logout",
  "End your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedOutCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Goodbye :)");
  },
);

bot.use(loggedInCommands);
bot.use(loggedOutCommands);

// by default, users are not logged in,
// so you can set the logged out commands for everyone
await loggedOutCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

```js [JavaScript]
// Register the context shortcut
bot.use(commands());

const loggedOutCommands = new Commands();
const loggedInCommands = new Commands();

loggedOutCommands.command(
  "login",
  "Start your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedInCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

loggedInCommands.command(
  "logout",
  "End your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedOutCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Goodbye :)");
  },
);

bot.use(loggedInCommands);
bot.use(loggedOutCommands);

// by default, users are not logged in,
// so you can set the logged out commands for everyone
await loggedOutCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

:::

> This way when a user calls `/login`, they'll have their commands list changed to contain only the "logout" command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way when a user calls `/login`, they'll have their commands list changed to contain only the `logout` command.
```

      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Ops... I don't know that command :/");
  });
```

:::

## Command Options

There are a few options that can be specified per command, per scope, or globally for a `Commands` instance.
These options allow you to further customize how your bot handles commands, giving you more flexibility.

### `targetedCommands`

When users invoke a command, they can optionally tag your bot, like so: `/command@bot_username`.
You can decide what to do with these commands by using the `targetedCommands` config option.
With it you can coose between three different behaviors:

- `ignored`: Ignores commands that mention your bot's user
- `optional`: Handles both commands that do and that don't mention the bot's user
- `required`: Only handles commands that mention the bot's user

### `prefix`

Currently, only commands starting with `/` are recognized by Telegram and, thus, by the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
In some occasions, you might want to change that and use a custom prefix for your bot.

> That is made possible by the `prefix` option, which will tell the Commands plugin to look for that prefix when trying to identify a command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is made possible by the `prefix` option, which will tell the Commands plugin to look for that prefix when trying to identify a command.
```

### `matchOnlyAtStart`

> When [handling commands](../guide/commands.md), the grammY core library will only recognize commands that start on the first carachter of a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When [handling commands](../guide/commands), the grammY core library will only recognize commands that start on the first character of a message.
```

# Commands (`commands`)

Command handling on steroids.

This plugin provides various features related to command handling that are not contained in the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
Here is a quick overview of what you get with this plugin:

- Better code structure by attaching middleware to command definitions
- Automatic synchronization via `setMyCommands`
- Defining command translations
- Command scope handling
- "Did you mean ...?" feature that automatically finds the nearest existing command

> All of these features are made possible because you will define one or more central command structures that you define for your commands.

Author: ```suggestion
All of these features are made possible because you will define one or more central command structures that define your bot's commands.
```

This method takes in a [BotCommandScope](/ref/types/botcommandscope) together with one or more handlers, and registers those handlers to be ran at that specific scope.

You don't even need to worry about calling `filter`, the `addToScope` method will guarantee that your handler only gets called if the context is right.

Here's an example of a scoped command:

```js
const myCommands = new Commands();

myCommands
  .command("start", "Initializes bot configuration")
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_private_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, ${ctx.chat.first_name}!`),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, members of ${ctx.chat.title}!`),
  );
```

The `start` command can now be called from both private and group chats, and it will give a different response depending on where it gets called from.
Now if you call `myCommands.setCommands`, the `start` command will be registered to both private and group chats.

Heres an example of a command that it's only accesible to group admins

```js
adminCommands
  .command("secret", "Admin only")
  .addToScope({
    type: "all_chat_administrators",

>   }, async (c) => {
>     await c.reply("Free cake!");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  }, async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.reply("Free cake!");
  ```

    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, ${ctx.chat.first_name}!`),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, members of ${ctx.chat.title}!`),
  );
```

The `start` command can now be called from both private and group chats, and it will give a different response depending on where it gets called from.
Now if you call `myCommands.setCommands`, the `start` command will be registered to both private and group chats.

Heres an example of a command that it's only accesible to group admins

```js
adminCommands
  .command("secret", "Admin only")
  .addToScope({
    type: "all_chat_administrators",
  }, async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.reply("Free cake!");
  });
```

Note: if you only want a command to be accesible on certain scopes, make sure you do not add a handler in the first `MyCommands.command` call. Doing that will automatically add it to all private chats, including groups.

Here is an example of a command that it's only accesible in groups

```js
myCommands
  .command(
    "fun",
    "Laugh",
    /** skip this handler */
  ).addToScope({
    type: "all_group_chats",
  }, async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.reply("Haha");
  });
```

> ## Command Translations

Reviewer 3: how to use that feature with `@grammyjs/i18n`? We don't have access to the context object to pull the from .ftl file, is there any workaround to have all translations in one place?

Reviewer 2: > how to use that feature with `@grammyjs/i18n`?

The `.localize` method only affects the command name and description. You should be able to use the i18n plugin as usual.
Example
```ts
myCommands.command("start", "start the bot", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply(ctx.t("start-msg"));
}).localize("es","iniciar",'inicia el bot')
```

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I wish to use i18n for the command and for the command description as well. 
I was looking at this example:
[setcommands.ts](https://github.com/bot-base/telegram-bot-template/blob/4d83d5969dc8c8185a31a1c7d0a956b3785cd320/src/bot/handlers/commands/setcommands.ts#L14-L21)
I thought `i18n` is accessible only from the bot context, but it was just exported.
Seems like it can be used something like in this example
```ts
function addLocalizations(command: Command, commandKey: string) {
  i18n.locales.forEach((locale) => {
    command.localize(
      locale,
      i18n.t(locale, `${commandKey}.command`),
      i18n.t(locale, `${commandKey}.description`)
    );
  });
  return command;
}

```

Reviewer 4: I haven't used the i18n plugin, but this looks like it should work. I'd guess the ctx property just serves as a shortcut so you don't need to specify the location manually

Reviewer 2: Nice, look's like I didn't understood your question quite correctly. 
Looking at your example, might be handy to have a getter for the `_commands` private field (which is an array of all the Command classes contained in a Commands instance), so you can pass easily each command into a function like this.

Reviewer 4: hmm the .command method returns the command instance tho, so I don't know if this is really necessary
wouldn't hurt tho

Reviewer 2: > the .command method returns the command instance

Yeah, but might also be handy for stuff like: (following the above example)
```ts
// register
const all = myCommands.commands
all.forEach( (command ) => addLocalizations(command, command.name))
```

Reviewer 4: @carafelix mind turning this suggestion into an issue too, please?

Reviewer 2: It's already addressed in the `addEntities` branch?

> 1-32 characters. Can contain only lowercase English letters, digits and underscores.

Therefore calling `setCommands` or `setMyCommands` on upperCased commands will throw an exception. They can still be registered and used, but will never be displayed on the user menu as such.

**Setting UpperCased command names is heavily discourage**
:::

**Be aware** that `SetCommands` and `SetMyCommands` only affects the commands displayed in the user's commands menu, and not the actual access to them. You will learn how to implement restricted command access in the [Scoped Commands](#scoped-commands) section.

### Grouping Commands

Since we can split and group our commands into different instances, it allows for a much more idiomatic command file organization.

Let say we want to have developer-only commands. We can achieve that with the the following code structure:

```ascii
src/
├─ commands/
│  ├─ users.ts
│  ├─ admin.ts
├─ bot.ts
├─ types.d.ts
tsconfig.json
```

::: tip
We are assuming your `tsconfig` file is well-set to resolve the types from `types.d.ts` and have resolved every necessary import.
:::

> The following code group exemplify how we could implement a developer only command group, and update our Telegram client Command menu. Make sure you inspect the `admin.ts` and `user.ts` file-tabs.

Reviewer 4: should we rename the `Commands` class to `CommandGroup`? I feel like it expresses what it is way better

# Commands (`commands`)

Command handling on steroids.

This plugin provides various features related to command handling that are not contained in the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
Here is a quick overview of what you get with this plugin:

- Better code readability by encapsulating middleware with command definitions
- User command menu synchronization via `setMyCommands`
- Improved command grouping and organization
- Ability to scope command reach, e.g: only accessible to group admins or channels, etc
- Defining command translations
- `Did you mean ...?` feature that finds the nearest existing command to a given user miss-input

> - Allow for commands to match in a case-insensitive manner

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Case-insensitive command matching
```

- Set custom behavior for commands that explicitly mention your bot's user, like: `/start@your_bot`
- Custom command prefixes, e.g: `+`, `?` or any symbol instead of `/`
- Support for commands that are not in the beginning of the message
- RegExp Commands!

All of these features are made possible because you will define one or more central command structures that define your bot's commands.

## Basic Usage

Before we dive in, take a look at how you can register and handle a command with the plugin:

```js
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, world!`));

bot.use(myCommands);
```

This registers a new `/start` command to your bot that will be handled by the given middleware.

Now, let's get into some of the extra tools this plugin has to offer.

## Importing

First of all, we need to import the `CommandGroup` class.

::: code-group

> ```ts [TypeScript]
> import { CommandGroup commands, type CommandsFlavor } from "@grammyjs/commands";
> ```
> 
> ```js [JavaScript]
> const { CommandGroup commands } = require("@grammyjs/commands");
> ```
> 
> ```ts [Deno]
> import {
>   CommandGroup
>   commands,
>   type CommandsFlavor,
> } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands/mod.ts";
> ```

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
```ts [TypeScript]
import { CommandGroup, commands, type CommandsFlavor } from "@grammyjs/commands";
```

```js [JavaScript]
const { CommandGroup, commands } = require("@grammyjs/commands");
```

```ts [Deno]
import {
  CommandGroup,
  commands,
  type CommandsFlavor,
} from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands/mod.ts";
```
````

> 1-32 characters. Can contain only lowercase English letters, digits and underscores.

Therefore calling `setCommands` or `setMyCommands` with anything but lower_c4s3_commands will throw an exception. Commands not following this rules can still be registered, used and handled, but will never be displayed on the user menu as such.
:::

**Be aware** that `SetCommands` and `SetMyCommands` only affects the commands displayed in the user's commands menu, and not the actual access to them. You will learn how to implement restricted command access in the [Scoped Commands](#scoped-commands) section.

### Grouping Commands

Since we can split and group our commands into different instances, it allows for a much more idiomatic command file organization.

Let say we want to have developer-only commands. We can achieve that with the the following code structure:

```ascii
src/
├─ commands/
│  ├─ users.ts
│  ├─ admin.ts
├─ bot.ts
├─ types.d.ts
tsconfig.json
```

::: tip
We are assuming your `tsconfig` file is well-set to resolve the types from `types.d.ts` and have resolved every necessary import.
:::

> The following code group exemplify how we could implement a developer only command group, and update our Telegram client Command menu. Make sure you inspect the `admin.ts` and `user.ts` file-tabs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following code group exemplifies how we could implement a developer only command group, and update our Telegram client Command menu. Make sure you inspect the `admin.ts` and `user.ts` file-tabs.
```

   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply('Hi to me')
      await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands)
   } else next()
})

devCommands.command('usercount', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Active users: ${/** Your business logic */}`
    )
   } else next()
})

devCommands.command('devlogout', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
    if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
       await ctx.reply('Bye to me')
       await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands)
    } else next()
 })
```

```ts [users.ts]
export const userCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

userCommands.command("start", "Greetings", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello user");
  await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands);
});
```

```ts [types.d.ts]
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;
```

:::

Combining this knowledge with the following section will get your Command-game to the next level.

## Scoped Commands

Did you know you can allow different commands to be shown on different chats depending on the chat type, the language, and even the user status in a chat group?

> That's what Telegram call **Command Scopes**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
That's what Telegram calls **Command Scopes**.
```

The `Command` class returned by the `command` method exposes a method called `addToScope`.
This method takes in a [BotCommandScope](/ref/types/botcommandscope) together with one or more handlers, and registers those handlers to be ran at that specific scope.

You don't even need to worry about calling `filter`, the `addToScope` method will guarantee that your handler only gets called if the context is right.

Here's an example of a scoped command:

```js
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands
  .command("start", "Initializes bot configuration")
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_private_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, ${ctx.chat.first_name}!`),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, members of ${ctx.chat.title}!`),
  );
```

The `start` command can now be called from both private and group chats, and it will give a different response depending on where it gets called from.
Now if you call `myCommands.setCommands`, the `start` command will be registered to both private and group chats.

> Heres an example of a command that it's only accesible to group admins

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Heres an example of a command that's only accesible to group admins
```

```js
adminCommands
  .command("secret", "Admin only")
  .addToScope({
    type: "all_chat_administrators",
  }, async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.reply("Free cake!");
  });
```

::: tip
If you only want a command to be accesible on certain scopes, make sure you do not add a handler in the first `MyCommands.command` call. Doing that will automatically add it to all private chats, including groups.
:::

> Here is an example of a command that it's only accesible in groups

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here is an example of a command that's only accesible in groups
```

)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

```js [JavaScript]
const { LanguageCodes } = require("@grammyjs/types");

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",
  async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

```ts [Deno]
import { LanguageCodes } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_types/mod.ts";

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",
  async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

:::

### Combo with i18n

If you are looking to have your localized command names and descriptions bundle inside your `.ftl` files, you could make use of the following idea:

```ts
function addLocalizations(command: Command) {
  i18n.locales.forEach((locale) => {
    command.localize(
      locale,
      i18n.t(locale, `${command.name}.command`),
      i18n.t(locale, `${command.name}.description`)
    );
  });
  return command;
}

myCommands.commands.forEach(addLocalizations)

```

## Finding the Nearest Command

> Even though Telegram it's capable of auto completing the registered commands, sometimes users do type them manually and, in some cases, happen to make mistakes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Even though Telegram is capable of auto completing the registered commands, sometimes users do type them manually and, in some cases, happen to make mistakes.
```

> The Commands plugin helps you deal with that by allowing you to suggest a command that might be what the user wanted in the first place. It is compatible with custom prefixes, so you don't have to worry about that, and it's usage is quite straight-forward:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Commands plugin helps you deal with that by allowing you to suggest a command that might be what the user wanted in the first place. It is compatible with custom prefixes, so you don't have to worry about that, and its usage is quite straight-forward:
```

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
import { commandNotFound } from "@grammyjs/commands";

// Use the flavor to create a custom context
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;

// Use the new context to instantiate your bot
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>("token");

// Register the plugin
bot.use(commands());

> const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
const myCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();
```

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands.
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });
```

```js [JavaScript]
// Register the context shortcut
bot.use(commands());

const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands.
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });
```

:::

> Behind the scenes `commandNotFound` will use the `getNearestCommand` context method which by default will prioritize commands that correspond to the user language, if you want to opt-out of this behavior, you can pass the `ignoreLocalization` flag set to true.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Behind the scenes, `commandNotFound` will use the `getNearestCommand` context method which by default will prioritize commands that correspond to the user language. If you want to opt-out of this behavior, you can pass the `ignoreLocalization` flag set to true.
```

It is possible to search across multiple CommandGroup instances, and `ctx.commandSuggestion` will be the most similar command, if any, across them all.

It also allows to set the `ignoreCase` flag, which will ignore casing while looking for a similar command and the `similarityThreshold` flag, which controls how similar a command name has to be to the user input for it to be recommended.

The `commandNotFound` function will only trigger for updates which contains command-like-text similar to your registered commands. For example, if you only have register [commands with custom prefixes](#prefix) `?` and `supercustom`, it will trigger the handle for anything that looks like your commands, e.g: `?sayhi` or `supercustomhi`, but no `/definitely_a_command`. Same goes the other way, if you only have commands with the default prefix, it will only trigger on updates that looks like `/regular /commands`.

> The recommended commands will only come from the commandGroup instances you pass to the function. So you could defer the checks into multiple, separate filters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The recommended commands will only come from the `CommandGroup` instances you pass to the function. So you could defer the checks into multiple, separate filters.
```

### ignoreCase

By default commands will match the user input in a case-sensitive manner. Having this flag set, for example, in a command named `/dandy` will match `/DANDY` the same as `/dandY` or any other case-only variation.

### targetedCommands

When users invoke a command, they can optionally tag your bot, like so: `/command@bot_username`.
You can decide what to do with these commands by using the `targetedCommands` config option.
With it you can choose between three different behaviors:

- `ignored`: Ignores commands that mention your bot's user
- `optional`: Handles both commands that do and that don't mention the bot's user
- `required`: Only handles commands that mention the bot's user

### prefix

Currently, only commands starting with `/` are recognized by Telegram and, thus, by the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
In some occasions, you might want to change that and use a custom prefix for your bot.
That is made possible by the `prefix` option, which will tell the Commands plugin to look for that prefix when trying to identify a command.

> If you are ever in the need for retrieving botCommand entities from an update and need it to be hydrated with the custom prefixed you have register, there is a method specifically tailored for that, called `ctx.getCommandEntities(yourCommands)`. It returns the same interface as `ctx.entities('bot_command')`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you ever need to retrieve `botCommand` entities from an update and need them to be hydrated with the custom prefix you have registered, there is a method specifically tailored for that, called `ctx.getCommandEntities(yourCommands)`. It returns the same interface as `ctx.entities('bot_command')`
```

:::tip
Commands with custom prefixes cannot be shown in the Commands Menu.
:::

### matchOnlyAtStart

When [handling commands](../guide/commands), the grammY core library will only recognize commands that start on the first character of a message.
The Commands plugin, however, allows you to listen for commands in the middle of the message text, or in the end, it doesn't matter!
All you have to do is set the `matchOnlyAtStart` option to `false`, and the rest will be done by the plugin.

## RegExp Commands

This feature is for those who are really looking to go wild, it allows you to create command handlers based on Regular Expressions instead of static strings, a basic example would look like:

```js
myCommands
  .command(
    /delete_([a-zA-Z]{1,})/,
    (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Deleting ${ctx.message?.text?.split("_")[1]}`),
  );
```

> This command handler will trigger on `/delete_me` the same as in `/delete_you`, and it will reply `Deleting me` in the first case and `Deleting you` in the later, but will not trigger on `/delete_` nor `/delete_123xyz`, passing trough as if it was no there.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This command handler will trigger on `/delete_me` the same as in `/delete_you`, and it will reply `Deleting me` in the first case and `Deleting you` in the later, but will not trigger on `/delete_` nor `/delete_123xyz`, passing trough as if it wasn't there.
```

export const devCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()

devCommands.command('devlogin', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply('Hi to me')
      await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands)
   } else next()
})

devCommands.command('usercount', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Active users: ${/** Your business logic */}`
    )
   } else next()
})

devCommands.command('devlogout', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
    if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
       await ctx.reply('Bye to me')
       await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands)
    } else next()
 })
```

```ts [group.ts]
import sayHi from "./say-hi.ts";
import sayBye from "./say-bye.ts";
import etc from "./another-command.ts";

export const userCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()
  .add([sayHi, sayBye]);
```

```ts [say-hi.ts]
export default new Command<MyContext>("sayhi", "Greetings", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello little User!");
});
```

```ts [types.d.ts]
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;

> ```

Author: Can we simply delete this file and inline its type definition where needed?

Reviewer 4: You're right, and I've just realized what you were saying. Yeah, we can remove it.

Author: Epic

  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    // This will only be called for non-admin users in a group
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello, group chat!"),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_chat_administrators" },
    // This will be called for group admins, when inside that group
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello, admin!"),
  );
```

## Command Translations

Another powerful feature is the ability to set different names for the same command, and their respective descriptions based on the user language.
The commands plugin makes that easy by providing the `localize` method.
Check it out:

```js
myCommands
  // You need to set a default name and description
  .command("hello", "Say hello")
  // And then you can set the localized ones
  .localize("pt", "ola", "Dizer olá");
```

Add as many as you want! The plugin will take care of registering them for you when you call `myCommands.setCommands`.

For convenience grammY exports a `LanguageCodes` enum-like object, that you can use for a more idiomatic approach:

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
import { LanguageCodes } from "grammy/types";

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",

>   async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),

Author: ```suggestion
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
```

Author: (because we either have to use the concise version here or add `async`/`await` everywhere, but it's odd to be inconsistent about it)

)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

```js [JavaScript]
const { LanguageCodes } = require("grammy/types");

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",

>   async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),

Author: ```suggestion
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
```

)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

```ts [Deno]
import { LanguageCodes } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/types.ts";

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",

>   async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),

Author: ```suggestion
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
```

# Commands (`commands`)

Command handling on steroids.

> This plugin provides various features related to command handling that are not contained in the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This plugin provides various features related to command handling that are not contained in the [command handling done by the core library](../guide/commands).
```

Here is a quick overview of what you get with this plugin:

> - Better code readability by encapsulating middleware with command definitions
> - User command menu synchronization via `setMyCommands`
> - Improved command grouping and organization
> - Ability to scope command reach, e.g: only accessible to group admins or
>   channels, etc
> - Defining command translations
> - `Did you mean ...?` feature that finds the nearest existing command to a given
>   user miss-input
> - Case-insensitive command matching
> - Setting custom behavior for commands that explicitly mention your bot's user,
>   like: `/start@your_bot`
> - Custom command prefixes, e.g: `+`, `?` or any symbol instead of `/`
> - Support for commands that are not in the beginning of the message
> - RegExp Commands!

Reviewer 6: We do not split sentences like that.
We always put the entire sentence per line.
The IDE may perform any wraps, but it should not affect the actual sentence layout.

```suggestion
- Better code readability by encapsulating middleware with command definitions
- User command menu synchronization via `setMyCommands`
- Improved command grouping and organization
- Ability to scope command reach, e.g: only accessible to group admins or channels, etc
- Defining command translations
- `Did you mean ...?` feature that finds the nearest existing command to a given user miss-input
- Case-insensitive command matching
- Setting custom behavior for commands that explicitly mention your bot's user, like: `/start@your_bot`
- Custom command prefixes, e.g: `+`, `?` or any symbol instead of `/`
- Support for commands that are not in the beginning of the message
- RegExp Commands!
```

All of these features are made possible because you will define one or more central command structures that define your bot's commands.

## Basic Usage

Before we dive in, take a look at how you can register and handle a command with the plugin:

```ts
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, world!`));

bot.use(myCommands);
```

> This registers a new `/start` command to your bot that will be handled by the given middleware.

Reviewer 7: Aren't should be:

```ts
myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, world!`));

bot.use(myCommands);
```

This registers a new `/hello` command to your bot that will be handled by the given middleware.

Reviewer 7: `/start` should be changed to `/hello` I mean

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, world!`));

bot.use(myCommands);
```

This registers a new `/hello` command to your bot that will be handled by the given middleware.
```

Reviewer 4: couldn't commit it from the UI for some reason

Now, let's get into some of the extra tools this plugin has to offer.

## Importing

First of all, here's how you can import all the necessary types and classes the plugin provides.

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
import {
  CommandGroup,
  commandNotFound,
  commands,
  type CommandsFlavor,
} from "@grammyjs/commands";
```

```js [JavaScript]
const { CommandGroup, commands, commandNotFound } = require(
  "@grammyjs/commands",
);
```

```ts [Deno]
import {
  CommandGroup,
  commandNotFound,
  commands,
  type CommandsFlavor,
} from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands/mod.ts";
```

:::

> Now that that's settled, let's see how we can make our commands visible to our users.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now that the imports are settled, let's see how we can make our commands visible to our users.
```

## User Command Menu Setting

Once you defined your commands with an instance of the `CommandGroup` class, you can call the `setCommands` method, which will register all the defined commands to your bot.

```ts
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hi there!"));
myCommands.command("start", "Start the bot", (ctx) => ctx.reply("Starting..."));

bot.use(myCommands);

await myCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

This will make it so every command you registered is displayed on the menu of a private chat with your bot, or whenever users type `/` on a chat your bot is a member of.

### Context Shortcut

> What if you want some commands to be displayed only to certain users? For example, imagine you have a `login` and a `logout` command.

Reviewer 6: We do not put several sentences on a single line.

```suggestion
What if you want some commands to be displayed only to certain users?
For example, imagine you have a `login` and a `logout` command.
```

The `login` command should only appear for logged out users, and vice versa.
This is how you can do that with the commands plugin:

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
// Use the flavor to create a custom context
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;

// Use the new context to instantiate your bot

> const bot = new Bot<MyContext>("token");

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(""); <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
```

// Register the context shortcut
bot.use(commands());

const loggedOutCommands = new CommandGroup();
const loggedInCommands = new CommandGroup();

loggedOutCommands.command(
  "login",
  "Start your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {

>     await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedInCommands);

Reviewer: I received an error when running this code snippet.

Error:
```
Property 'setMyCommands' does not exist on type 'CommandContext<Context>'.
  Property 'setMyCommands' does not exist on type 'FilteredContext<NarrowMatch<Context, string>, Update & Record<"message", Record<"entities" | AddTwins<"message", "entities">, NotUndefined> & Partial<...>> & Partial<...>>'.
```
The code:
```ts
import { Bot, Context } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/mod.ts";
import {
  CommandGroup,
  commands,
  type CommandsFlavor,
} from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";

const botToken = Deno.env.get("BOT_TOKEN");
if (!botToken) throw new Error("Missing bot token!");

type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(botToken);

bot.use(commands());

const loggedOutCommands = new CommandGroup();
const loggedInCommands = new CommandGroup();

loggedOutCommands.command(
  "login",
  "Start your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedInCommands); // <-- ERROR
    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

// Rest of code...
```

Reviewer: @roziscoding, the same error is still present in the latest version ([grammy_commands@0.11.0](https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@0.11.0/mod.ts))

Author: Try
```ts
new CommandGroup<MyContext>();
```

Reviewer: > Try
> 
> ```ts
> new CommandGroup<MyContext>();
> ```

It’s giving us another error:

```ts
const loggedOutCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();
const loggedInCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

loggedOutCommands.command(
  "login",
  "Start your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedInCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);
```
```
Argument of type 'CommandGroup<MyContext>' is not assignable to parameter of type 'CommandGroup<Context> | CommandGroup<Context>[]'.
  Type 'CommandGroup<MyContext>' is not assignable to type 'CommandGroup<Context>'.
    Types of property '_scopes' are incompatible.
      Type 'Map<string, Command<MyContext>[]>' is not assignable to type 'Map<string, Command<Context>[]>'.
        Type 'Command<MyContext>[]' is not assignable to type 'Command<Context>[]'.
          Type 'Command<MyContext>' is not assignable to type 'Command<Context>'.
            The types of '_composer.handler' are incompatible between these types.
              Type 'MiddlewareFn<MyContext>' is not assignable to type 'MiddlewareFn<Context>'.
                Type 'Context' is not assignable to type 'MyContext'.
                  Type 'Context' is missing the following properties from type 'CommandsFlavor<Context>': setMyCommands, getNearestCommand, getCommandEntities deno-ts(2345)
```

Author: Alright. I have no idea then. It's something that has to be fixed either in the code example or in the plugin.

Reviewer 2: I'm running the snippet with no errors. Reload cache?

Reviewer 2: should be 

```const loggedOutCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()```

Author: That's what I also thought, but apparent that does not fix it, does it?

    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

loggedInCommands.command(
  "logout",
  "End your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedOutCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Goodbye :)");
  },
);

bot.use(loggedInCommands);
bot.use(loggedOutCommands);

// By default, users are not logged in,
// so you can set the logged out commands for everyone
await loggedOutCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

```js [JavaScript]

> // Register the context shortcut
> bot.use(commands());

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot(""); <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)

// Register the context shortcut
bot.use(commands());
```

const loggedOutCommands = new CommandGroup();
const loggedInCommands = new CommandGroup();

loggedOutCommands.command(
  "login",
  "Start your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedInCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

loggedInCommands.command(
  "logout",
  "End your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedOutCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Goodbye :)");
  },
);

bot.use(loggedInCommands);
bot.use(loggedOutCommands);

// By default, users are not logged in,
// so you can set the logged out commands for everyone
await loggedOutCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

:::

This way when a user calls `/login`, they'll have their command list changed to contain only the `logout` command.
Neat, right?

::: danger Command Name Restrictions
As stated in the [Telegram Bot API documentation](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#botcommand), command names can only be form out of:

> > 1-32 characters.
> > Can contain only lowercase English letters, digits and underscores.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. 1-32 characters.
2. Can contain only lowercase English letters, digits and underscores.
```

> Therefore calling `setCommands` or `setMyCommands` with anything but lower_c4s3_commands will throw an exception.

Reviewer 6: How to understand the `lower_c4s3_commands`?

Reviewer 6: @KnorpelSenf @roziscoding

You will learn how to implement restricted command access in the [Scoped Commands](#scoped-commands) section.

### Grouping Commands

Since we can split and group our commands into different instances, it allows for a much more idiomatic command file organization.

Let's say we want to have developer-only commands.
We can achieve that with the following code structure:

```ascii
src/
├─ commands/
│  ├─ admin.ts
│  ├─ users/
│  │  ├─ group.ts
│  │  ├─ say-hi.ts
│  │  ├─ say-bye.ts
│  │  ├─ ...
├─ bot.ts
├─ types.ts
tsconfig.json
```

The following code group exemplifies how we could implement a developer only command group, and update the Telegram client Command menu accordingly.
Make sure you take notice of the different patterns being use in the `admin.ts` and `group.ts` file-tabs.

::: code-group

```ts [types.ts]
export type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;
```

```ts [bot.ts]
import { devCommands } from "./commands/admin.ts";
import { userCommands } from "./commands/users/group.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "./types.ts";

> export const bot = new Bot<MyContext>("MyBotToken");

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
export const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
```

bot.use(commands());

bot.use(userCommands);
bot.use(devCommands);
```

```ts [admin.ts]
import { userCommands } from './users/group.ts'
import type { MyContext } from '../types.ts'

export const devCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()

devCommands.command('devlogin', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply('Hi to me')
      await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands)
   } else {
     await next()
   }
})

> devCommands.command('usercount', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {

Reviewer 6: I think there should be a different description.

   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Active users: ${/** Your business logic */}`
    )
   } else {
     await next()
   }
})

> devCommands.command('devlogout', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {

Reviewer 6: I think there should be a different command description.

    if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
       await ctx.reply('Bye to me')
       await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands)
   } else {
     await next()
   }
 })
```

```ts [group.ts]
import sayHi from "./say-hi.ts";
import sayBye from "./say-bye.ts";
import etc from "./another-command.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "../../types.ts";

export const userCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()
  .add([sayHi, sayBye]);
```

```ts [say-hi.ts]
import type { MyContext } from "../../types.ts";

export default new Command<MyContext>("sayhi", "Greetings", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello little User!");
});

> ```

Reviewer: This snippet returns errors

types.ts
```ts
import type { Context } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/mod.ts";
import type { CommandsFlavor } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";

export type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;
```
bot.ts
```ts
import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/mod.ts";
import { devCommands } from "./commands/admin.ts";
import { userCommands } from "./commands/users/group.ts";
import { commands } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "./types.ts";

export const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)

bot.use(commands());

bot.use(userCommands);
bot.use(devCommands);
```

commands/admin.ts
```
1. Property 'env' does not exist on type 'CommandContext<MyContext>'.
    Property 'env' does not exist on type 'FilteredContext<NarrowMatch<MyContext, string>, Update & Record<"message", Record<"entities" | AddTwins<"message", "entities">, NotUndefined> & Partial<...>> & Partial<...>>'.
  
2. Type 'CommandGroup<MyContext>' has no properties in common with type 'SetBotCommandsOptions'.
```
```ts
import { userCommands } from "./users/group.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "../types.ts";
import { CommandGroup } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";

export const devCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

devCommands.command("devlogin", "Login", async (ctx, next) => {
  if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
    await ctx.reply("Hello, fellow developer! Are we having coffee today too?");
    // Error (2) ----------------------------- v
    await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands);
  } else {
    await next();
  }
});

devCommands.command(
  "usercount",
  "Count the active users",
  async (ctx, next) => {
    if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply(`Active users: `);
    } else {
      await next();
    }
  },
);

devCommands.command("devlogout", "Logout", async (ctx, next) => {
  if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
    await ctx.reply("Until next commit!");
    await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands);
  } else {
    await next();
  }
});
 ```
 
commands/users/group.ts
```
Property 'add' does not exist on type 'CommandGroup<MyContext>'.
```
 ```ts
import sayHi from "./say-hi.ts";
import sayBye from "./say-bye.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "../../types.ts";
import { CommandGroup } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";

export const userCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()
  .add([sayHi, sayBye]);
 ```

commands/users/say-hi.ts
```
1. Type '(ctx: any) => Promise<void>' has no properties in common with type 'Partial<CommandOptions>'.
2. Parameter 'ctx' implicitly has an 'any' type.
```
 ```ts
import { Command } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "../../types.ts";

export default new Command<MyContext>("sayhi", "Say hello", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello, little user!");
});
```

Reviewer 2: admin.ts errors
1: this error could be fixed by changing the retrieval of `DEVELOPER_ID` from ctx.env, to a placerholder `your developer id here`. If not, setting of `ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID` should be added to the snippet logic + the type
```
type MyContext = Context &
    CommandsFlavor<MyContext> &
  {
        env: {
            DEVELOPER_ID: number
        }
    }
```
(I left it implicitly before, I think the placeholder it's okay, and let anyone resolve the logic of how to get it by themself?)

2: 
```ts
async (ctx, next) => {
        if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
            await ctx.reply('Hi to me')
            await ctx.setMyCommands([
                userCommands,
                devCommands,
            ]) 
        } else next()
    }
    ```
    
    `groups.ts` and `say-hi.ts` errors should be fixed by caching the plugin again (the `next` branch was supposed to be merged to `main`, but it was not)

Reviewer 2: should be ok now. I removed the unnecessary env

:::

Did you notice it is possible to register single initialized Commands via the `.add` method into the `CommandGroup` instance or also directly through the `.command(...)` method?
This allows for a one-file-only structure, like in the `admin.ts` file, or a more distributed file structure like in the `group.ts` file.

::: tip Always Use Command Groups

When creating and exporting commands using the `Command` constructor, it's mandatory to register them onto a `CommandGroup` instance via the `.add` method.
On their own they are useless, so make sure you do that at some point.

:::

The plugin also enforce you to have the same Context-type for a given `CommandGroup` and their respective `Commands` so you avoid at first glance that kind of silly mistake!

Combining this knowledge with the following section will get your Command-game to the next level.

## Scoped Commands

> Did you know you can allow different commands to be shown on different chats depending on the chat type, the language, and even the user status in a chat group? That's what Telegram calls [**Command Scopes**](https://core.telegram.org/bots/features#command-scopes).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Did you know you can allow different commands to be shown on different chats depending on the chat type, the language, and even the user status in a chat group?
That's what Telegram calls [**Command Scopes**](https://core.telegram.org/bots/features#command-scopes).
```

Now, Command Scopes are a cool feature, but using it by hand can get really messy, since it's hard to keep track of all the scopes and what commands they present.
Plus, by using Command Scopes on their own, you have to do manual filtering inside each command to ensure they'll only run for the correct scopes.
Syncing those two things up can be a nightmare, and that's why this plugin exists.
Check how it's done.

The `Command` class returned by the `command` method exposes a method called `addToScope`.

> This method takes in a [BotCommandScope](/ref/types/botcommandscope) together with one or more handlers, and registers those handlers to be ran at that specific scope.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This method takes in a [`BotCommandScope`](/ref/types/botcommandscope) together with one or more handlers, and registers those handlers to be ran at that specific scope.
```

adminCommands
  .command("secret", "Admin only")
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_chat_administrators" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Free cake!"),
  );
```

And here is an example of a command that's only accessible in groups

```js
myCommands
  .command("fun", "Laugh")
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Haha"),
  );
```

Notice that when you call the `command` method, it opens up a new command.
If you give it a handler, that handler will apply to the `default` scope of that command.
Calling `addToScope` on that command will then add a new handler, which will be filtered to that scope.
Take a look at this example.

```ts
myCommands
  .command(
    "default",
    "Default command",
    // This will be called when not on a group chat, or when the user is not an admin
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello from default scope"),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    // This will only be called for non-admin users in a group
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello, group chat!"),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_chat_administrators" },
    // This will be called for group admins, when inside that group
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello, admin!"),
  );

> ```

Reviewer: Somehow, I’m always getting the default response, whether I’m an admin or not.

Steps:
1. Sent `/default` to the bot in a private chat and got back: `Hello from default scope`.
2. Sent `/default` in a group where I’m the creator (admin), and got the same response: `Hello from default scope`.
3. A non-admin member sent `/default` in the group and also got: `Hello from default scope` too.

Here is my code:
```ts
import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/mod.ts";
import { CommandGroup } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";

const botToken = Deno.env.get("BOT_TOKEN");
if (!botToken) throw new Error("Missing bot token!");

const bot = new Bot(botToken);

const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands
  .command(
    "default",
    "Default command",
    // This will be called when not in a group chat
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello from default scope"),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_group_chats" },
    // This will only be called for non-admin users in a group
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello, group chat!"),
  )
  .addToScope(
    { type: "all_chat_administrators" },
    // This will be called for group admins, when inside that group
    (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello, admin!"),
  );

bot.use(myCommands);
await myCommands.setCommands(bot);

bot.start({
  onStart() {
    console.info("Ready.");
  },
});
```

Reviewer 4: I know what the problem is. We need to add the default scope as the last handler internally. We can move on with the docs PQ and I'll open an issue on the plug-in repo to fix this before we release.

Reviewer 2: This snippet also needs to change the order in which the scopes are added. "all_chat_administrators" first and then "all_group_chats"

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

:::

### Localizing Commands With the Internationalization Plugin

If you are looking to have your localized command names and descriptions bundle inside your `.ftl` files, you could make use of the following idea:

```ts
function addLocalizations(command: Command) {
  i18n.locales.forEach((locale) => {
    command.localize(
      locale,
      i18n.t(locale, `${command.name}.command`),
      i18n.t(locale, `${command.name}.description`),
    );
  });
  return command;
}

myCommands.commands.forEach(addLocalizations);
```

## Finding the Nearest Command

Even though Telegram is capable of auto completing the registered commands, sometimes users do type them manually and, in some cases, happen to make mistakes.
The commands plugin helps you deal with that by allowing you to suggest a command that might be what the user wanted in the first place.
It is compatible with custom prefixes, so you don't have to worry about that, and its usage is quite straightforward:

::: code-group

> ```ts [TypeScript]

Reviewer 6: Add imports for these code examples.

// Use the flavor to create a custom context
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;

// Use the new context to instantiate your bot

> const bot = new Bot<MyContext>("token");

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
```

const myCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands.
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });

> ```

Reviewer: This code throws an error.

Error:
```
Error in middleware while handling update 141326753 TypeError: ctx.getNearestCommand is not a function
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/command-group.ts:398:12
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:863:20
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:784:38
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:141:39
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:152:19
    at pass (https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:157:12)
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:141:39
    at https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:786:43
    at eventLoopTick (ext:core/01_core.js:175:7)
    at async https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/composer.ts:152:13
No error handler was set!
Set your own error handler with `bot.catch = ...`
Stopping bot
error: Uncaught (in promise) BotError: TypeError in middleware: ctx.getNearestCommand is not a function 
```

The code:
```ts
import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy@v1.31.0/mod.ts";
import {
  CommandGroup,
  commandNotFound,
} from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_commands@v0.10.0/mod.ts";

const botToken = Deno.env.get("BOT_TOKEN");
if (!botToken) throw new Error("Missing bot token!");

const bot = new Bot(botToken);

const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands
  .command("hello", "Say hello", async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.reply("Hello, little user!");
  });

bot.use(myCommands);

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });

bot.start({
  onStart() {
    console.info("Ready.");
  },
});
```

Reviewer 4: Yes. It's missing the plug-in installation

Reviewer 2: > Yes. It's missing the plug-in installation

Which is included in this doc example, in the `bot.ts` file. But missing in single file snippet @quadratz send. Add `bot.use(commands());`and you should be good

```js [JavaScript]
// Use the new context to instantiate your bot

> const bot = new Bot("token");

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
```

> // Use the new context to instantiate your bot
> const bot = new Bot("token");

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot("token");
```

> // Use the new context to instantiate your bot
> const bot = new Bot("token");

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
```

const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands.
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });
```

:::

Behind the scenes, `commandNotFound` will use the `getNearestCommand` context method which by default will prioritize commands that correspond to the user language.
If you want to opt-out of this behavior, you can pass the `ignoreLocalization` flag set to true.

> It is possible to search across multiple CommandGroup instances, and `ctx.commandSuggestion` will be the most similar command, if any, across them all.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It is possible to search across multiple `CommandGroup` instances, and `ctx.commandSuggestion` will be the most similar command, if any, across them all.
```

It also allows to set the `ignoreCase` flag, which will ignore casing while looking for a similar command and the `similarityThreshold` flag, which controls how similar a command name has to be to the user input for it to be recommended.

> The `commandNotFound` function will only trigger for updates which contains command-like-text similar to your registered commands.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `commandNotFound` function will only trigger for updates which contains command-like text similar to your registered commands.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The `commandNotFound` function will only trigger for updates which contain command-like text similar to your registered commands.
```
is even better

For example, if you only have registered [commands with a custom prefix](#prefix) like `?`, it will trigger the handler for anything that looks like your commands, e.g: `?sayhi` but not `/definitely_a_command`.

> Same goes the other way, if you only have commands with the default prefix, it will only trigger on updates that look like `/regular` `/commands`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Same goes the other way, if you only have commands with the default prefix, it will only trigger on updates that look like `/regular` and `/commands`.
```

> The recommended commands will only come from the `CommandGroup` instances you pass to the function. So you could defer the checks into multiple, separate filters.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The recommended commands will only come from the `CommandGroup` instances you pass to the function.
So you could defer the checks into multiple, separate filters.
```

Let's use the previous knowledge to inspect the next example:

```ts
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();
myCommands.command("dad", "calls dad", () => {}, { prefix: "?" })
  .localize("es", "papa", "llama a papa")
  .localize("fr", "pere", "appelle papa");

const otherCommands = new CommandGroup();
otherCommands.command("bread", "eat a toast", () => {})
  .localize("es", "pan", "come un pan")
  .localize("fr", "pain", "manger du pain");

// Register each language-specific command group

// Let's assume the user is French and typed /Papi
bot
  // this filter will trigger for any command-like as '/regular' or '?custom'
  .filter(commandNotFound([myCommands, otherCommands], {
    ignoreLocalization: true,
    ignoreCase: true,
  }))
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    ctx.commandSuggestion === "?papa"; // evaluates to true
  });
```

If the `ignoreLocalization` was falsy instead we would have gotten "`ctx.commandSuggestion` equals `/pain`".

> We could add more filters like the above, with different parameters or `CommandGroups` to check against.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We could add more filters like the above, with different parameters or `CommandGroup`s to check against.
```

There are a lot of possibilities!

## Command Options

There are a few options that can be specified per command, per scope, or globally for a `CommandGroup` instance.
These options allow you to further customize how your bot handles commands, giving you more flexibility.

> ### ignoreCase

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### `ignoreCase`
```

By default commands will match the user input in a case-sensitive manner.
Having this flag set, for example, in a command named `/dandy` will match `/DANDY` the same as `/dandY` or any other case-only variation.

> ### targetedCommands

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### `targetedCommands`
```

> When users invoke a command, they can optionally tag your bot, like so: `/command@bot_username`. You can decide what to do with these commands by using the `targetedCommands` config option.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When users invoke a command, they can optionally tag your bot, like so: `/command@bot_username`.
You can decide what to do with these commands by using the `targetedCommands` config option.
```

With it you can choose between three different behaviors:

- `ignored`: Ignores commands that mention your bot's user
- `optional`: Handles both commands that do and that don't mention the bot's user
- `required`: Only handles commands that mention the bot's user

> ### prefix

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### `prefix`
```

Currently, only commands starting with `/` are recognized by Telegram and, thus, by the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
In some occasions, you might want to change that and use a custom prefix for your bot.
That is made possible by the `prefix` option, which will tell the commands plugin to look for that prefix when trying to identify a command.

If you ever need to retrieve `botCommand` entities from an update and need them to be hydrated with the custom prefix you have registered, there is a method specifically tailored for that, called `ctx.getCommandEntities(yourCommands)`, which returns the same interface as `ctx.entities('bot_command')`

> :::tip
> Commands with custom prefixes cannot be shown in the Commands Menu.
> :::

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
::: tip

Commands with custom prefixes cannot be shown in the Commands Menu.

:::
```

> ### matchOnlyAtStart

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### `matchOnlyAtStart`
```

    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

loggedInCommands.command(
  "logout",
  "End your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedOutCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Goodbye :)");
  },
);

bot.use(loggedInCommands);
bot.use(loggedOutCommands);

// By default, users are not logged in,
// so you can set the logged out commands for everyone
await loggedOutCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

```js [JavaScript]
// Register the context shortcut
bot.use(commands());

const loggedOutCommands = new CommandGroup();
const loggedInCommands = new CommandGroup();

loggedOutCommands.command(
  "login",
  "Start your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedInCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Welcome! Session started!");
  },
);

loggedInCommands.command(
  "logout",
  "End your session with the bot",
  async (ctx) => {
    await ctx.setMyCommands(loggedOutCommands);
    await ctx.reply("Goodbye :)");
  },
);

bot.use(loggedInCommands);
bot.use(loggedOutCommands);

// By default, users are not logged in,
// so you can set the logged out commands for everyone
await loggedOutCommands.setCommands(bot);
```

:::

> This way when a user calls `/login`, they'll have their commands list changed to

Author: ```suggestion
This way when a user calls `/login`, they'll have their command list changed to
```

contain only the `logout` command. Neat, right?

If you want to prevent, for example, the commands contained in
`loggedInCommands` from being callable after the user called `/logout`, you must
implement it in your handlers with your own business logic.

::: danger
As stated in the

> [Telegram API documentation](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#botcommand),

Author: big difference:
```suggestion
[Telegram Bot API documentation](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#botcommand),
```

command names can only be form out of:

> 1-32 characters. Can contain only lowercase English letters, digits and
> underscores.

Therefore calling `setCommands` or `setMyCommands` with anything but
lower_c4s3_commands will throw an exception. Commands not following this rules
can still be registered, used and handled, but will never be displayed on the
user menu as such.
:::

> **Be aware** that `SetCommands` and `SetMyCommands` only affects the commands

Author: Bad casing?
```suggestion
**Be aware** that `setCommands` and `setMyCommands` only affects the commands
```

> displayed in the user's commands menu, and not the actual access to them. You

Author: Is this sentence saying the exact same thing as the sentence before the DANGER box? This redundancy feels odd.

will learn how to implement restricted command access in the
[Scoped Commands](#scoped-commands) section.

### Grouping Commands

Since we can split and group our commands into different instances, it allows
for a much more idiomatic command file organization.

Let say we want to have developer-only commands. We can achieve that with the
the following code structure:

```ascii
src/
├─ commands/
│  ├─ admin.ts
│  ├─ users/
│  │  ├─ group.ts
│  │  ├─ say-hi.ts
│  │  ├─ say-bye.ts
│  │  ├─ ...
├─ bot.ts
├─ types.d.ts
tsconfig.json
```

> ::: tip

Author: How about giving a title to all boxes?

export const devCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()

devCommands.command('devlogin', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply('Hi to me')
      await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands)
   } else next()
})

devCommands.command('usercount', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
   if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Active users: ${/** Your business logic */}`
    )
   } else next()
})

devCommands.command('devlogout', 'Greetings', async (ctx, next) => {
    if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
       await ctx.reply('Bye to me')
       await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands)
    } else next()
 })
```

```ts [group.ts]
import sayHi from "./say-hi.ts";
import sayBye from "./say-bye.ts";
import etc from "./another-command.ts";

export const userCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>()
  .add([sayHi, sayBye]);
```

```ts [say-hi.ts]
export default new Command<MyContext>("sayhi", "Greetings", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello little User!");
});
```

```ts [types.d.ts]
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;

> ```

Author: I don't like this. Installing types to the global scope is opaque and magical. It adds an implicit dependency, requires users to configure their TS config correctly, and it makes this example harder to understand. It also put semantically related things in unrelated places of the code base, so it's not even advisable from a code organisation point of view. Prefer adding explicit `import type` statements where necessary.

Reviewer 4: they're not really installed to the global scope. it's just that the imports are exemplified earlier
but not everybody will read the whole page, so it does make sense to add them every time

Author: > they're not really installed to the global scope. it's just that the imports are exemplified earlier

Then I don't understand the setup :D

Reviewer 4: You're right, and I've just realized what you were saying. Yeah, we can remove `types.d.ts`

:::

Did you notice it is possible to register single initialized Commands via the `.add` method into the `CommandGroup` instance or also directly through the `.command(...)` method? This allows for a one-file-only structure, like in the `admin.ts` file, or a more distributed file structure like in the `group.ts` file.

::: tip

> When creating and exporting commands using the `Command` constructor, it's mandatory to register them onto a `CommandGroup` instance via the `.add` method. By their own they are useless, so make sure you do that at some point.

Author: ```suggestion
When creating and exporting commands using the `Command` constructor, it's mandatory to register them onto a `CommandGroup` instance via the `.add` method. On their own they are useless, so make sure you do that at some point.
```

  // And then you can set the localized ones
  .localize("pt", "ola", "Dizer olá");
```

Add as many as you want! The plugin will take care of registering them for you
when you call `myCommands.setCommands`.

For convenience the types package exports a `LanguageCodes` enum-like object,
that you can use for a more idiomatic approach:

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
import { LanguageCodes } from "@grammyjs/types";

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",
  async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

```js [JavaScript]
const { LanguageCodes } = require("@grammyjs/types");

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",
  async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

```ts [Deno]
import { LanguageCodes } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_types/mod.ts";

myCommands.command(
  "chef",
  "Steak delivery",
  async (ctx) => await ctx.reply("Steak on the plate!"),
)
  .localize(
    LanguageCodes.Spanish,
    "cocinero",
    "Bife a domicilio",
  );
```

:::

> ### Combo with i18n

Reviewer 4: I don't get what the problem is 😅

> ### Combo with i18n

Author: ```suggestion
### Localizing Commands With the Internationalization Plugin
```

inside your `.ftl` files, you could make use of the following idea:

```ts
function addLocalizations(command: Command) {
  i18n.locales.forEach((locale) => {
    command.localize(
      locale,
      i18n.t(locale, `${command.name}.command`),
      i18n.t(locale, `${command.name}.description`),
    );
  });
  return command;
}

myCommands.commands.forEach(addLocalizations);
```

## Finding the Nearest Command

Even though Telegram is capable of auto completing the registered commands,
sometimes users do type them manually and, in some cases, happen to make
mistakes. The Commands plugin helps you deal with that by allowing you to
suggest a command that might be what the user wanted in the first place. It is
compatible with custom prefixes, so you don't have to worry about that, and its
usage is quite straight-forward:

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
import { commandNotFound } from "@grammyjs/commands";

// Use the flavor to create a custom context
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;

// Use the new context to instantiate your bot
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>("token");

// Register the plugin

> bot.use(commands());

Reviewer 4: it's not needed for this example. I've removed it

`/command@bot_username`. You can decide what to do with these commands by using
the `targetedCommands` config option. With it you can choose between three
different behaviors:

- `ignored`: Ignores commands that mention your bot's user
- `optional`: Handles both commands that do and that don't mention the bot's
  user
- `required`: Only handles commands that mention the bot's user

### prefix

Currently, only commands starting with `/` are recognized by Telegram and, thus,
by the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands). In
some occasions, you might want to change that and use a custom prefix for your
bot. That is made possible by the `prefix` option, which will tell the Commands
plugin to look for that prefix when trying to identify a command.

If you ever need to retrieve `botCommand` entities from an update and need them
to be hydrated with the custom prefix you have registered, there is a method
specifically tailored for that, called `ctx.getCommandEntities(yourCommands)`.
It returns the same interface as `ctx.entities('bot_command')`

:::tip
Commands with custom prefixes cannot be shown in the Commands Menu.
:::

> ### matchOnlyAtStart

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure either if we'd like to refactor now, because this would be breaking
the rationale behind naming it this way is because this is the default behavior of the core lib, and (at least when I started it) I wanted general behavior to match the default lib, with features (like matching in the middle of the text) being opt-in

> ### matchOnlyAtStart

Author: Alright

When [handling commands](../guide/commands), the grammY core library will only
recognize commands that start on the first character of a message. The Commands
plugin, however, allows you to listen for commands in the middle of the message
text, or in the end, it doesn't matter! All you have to do is set the
`matchOnlyAtStart` option to `false`, and the rest will be done by the plugin.

## RegExp Commands

This feature is for those who are really looking to go wild, it allows you to
create command handlers based on Regular Expressions instead of static strings,
a basic example would look like:

```js
myCommands
  .command(

>     /delete_([a-zA-Z]{1,})/,

Author: ```suggestion
    /delete_([a-zA-Z]+)/,
```
maybe?

>     (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Deleting ${ctx.message?.text?.split("_")[1]}`),

Author: Are you sure that `ctx.messsage` is potentially `undefined` here? If yes, should `ctx.msg` be used instead? If that's also potentially `undefined`: why?

Reviewer 4: > Are you sure that ctx.messsage is potentially undefined here?
it shoulnd't be, IIRC, because we're using `BotCommandContext` everywhere AFAIK

Reviewer 4: > Are you sure that ctx.messsage is potentially undefined here?

it is, because we're using `ctx.msg` when doing the command matching

> If yes, should ctx.msg be used instead?

Yes.

  );
```

This command handler will trigger on `/delete_me` the same as in `/delete_you`,

> and it will reply `Deleting me` in the first case and `Deleting you` in the

Author: ```suggestion
and it will reply “Deleting me” in the first case and “Deleting you” in the
```

> later, but will not trigger on `/delete_` nor `/delete_123xyz`, passing trough

Author: ```suggestion
later, but will not trigger on `/delete_` nor `/delete_123xyz`, passing through
```

as if it wasn't there.

You can use custom prefixes and localize them as usual.

## Plugin Summary

- Name: `commands`
- [Source](https://github.com/grammyjs/commands)
- [Reference](/ref/commands/)

> - [Telegram Docs commands reference](https://core.telegram.org/bots/features#commands)

Author: Please remove this, the plugin summary should always consist of the same three values. It can be linked elsewhere on the page.
